Exercise 1: 

1. What is the difference between DSMS and DBMS?

DBMS:
a) Refers as Database management system.
b) Queries are one time queries.
c) Queries are transient and provide exact answer
d) Random data access occurs
e) Deals with persistent data
f) Data update rates are relatively low
g) Gives no real time service

DSMS:
a) Refers as Data Stream Management system
b) Queries are continuous.
c) Query answer is outdated or approximate.
d) Sequential data access occurs
e) Deals with volatile data streams.
f) Data update rates are really high
g) Gives real time service

2. What are the steps that a query goes through before its deployment?

Choose a application
Create the queries through that application
Compile the query into a logical query plan
Trying to optimize the query for better possible outcomes.
Converting the logical query into a physical query plan.
Deploy and execute the physical query plan.

3. How are queries processed in DSMS different to those in DBMS?

a) DSMS handles continuous queries on the other hand DBMS handles one-time queries.
b) Data stream sizes are unbounded and it behaves like an open-ended relation on the contrary database size limited to its tables.
c) Maximum time data stream set up on temporal data and database is not based on temporal data
d) Database queries always provide accurate and to the point data however data stream provides either exact or approximate data.
e) A data stream system cannot re-read stream nevertheless database systems can access the same table as many times as application requires.

4. Provide three use cases, where DSMS can be used; describe the data processed and the queries performed on them in each use case.


1. Monitoring the number of speeders in a reduced speed area.
a) Want to know how many cars went and whose speed was greater than certain speed limits.
b) Want to retrieve an update every 10 seconds. 

2. Weather monitoring System
a) Get real-time storm detection and weather forecast through data streaming.
b) In a heavy rainfall area, predict how much it may rain in that particular season.

3. Online Game Streaming
a) Monitor streaming data about player-game interactions then analyze the data in real time, in order to offer lucrative and dynamic experience.
b) Monitoring which player  often spends how much time in a particular game and their decision making process.
		

